Adding Apple frameworks > flutter plugins doc (#7747)
flutter/website: src/development/platform-integration/ios/apple-frameworks.md

> ---

Reviewer: **suggestion:** If this is a series of comparisons, use subheads for each language, as in:
```markdown
#### Apple Framework
...
#### Flutter
...
```

This would read more smoothly than `In native code, do...` then `In Flutter, do...`

Author: Will hold off on this in case we turn it into a table

title: Leveraging Apple's System Libraries

> description: Learn how to apply knowledge of Apple's APIs and frameworks when building Flutter apps.

Reviewer 2: Hmmmm, both "apply knowledge of apple's API when building flutter apps" and "leverage apple's API when building flutter apps" sounds like "writing code that calls apple api", which is not what it is. 

Maybe something like "Learn about various flutter plugins that offers equivalent functionalities to Apple's framework"? may need rephrasing

> description: Learn how to apply knowledge of Apple's APIs and frameworks when building Flutter apps.

Author: Added!

---

> This document is for iOS developers looking to apply

Author: That sounds good to me!

their existing knowledge of Apple's APIs within Flutter.
This includes accessing the device hardware and interacting 
with specific frameworks like `HealthKit` or `MapKit`.

<!-- Add once SwiftUI PR is merged -->
<!-- For an overview of how the SwiftUI framework compares to Flutter, 
see [Learning Flutter as a SwiftUI developer][].  -->

### Flutter plugin overview
When developing an app with Flutter, you can interact 
with system libraries using plugins. 

> Plugins are Dart libraries that contain platform-specific code. 

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Use active voice.
```suggestion
Dart calls libraries that contain platform-specific code _plugins_. 
```

> In the case of an iOS app, 
> the platform code can be written in Objective-C or Swift. 

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Active voice. Someone performs actions in these types of docs. It doesn't happen any other way.

```suggestion
With an iOS app, you can write the code in Objective-C or Swift. 
```

In your Dart code, you use the plugin's Dart API and 

> behind the scenes the native plugin code will directly call 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
behind the scenes the native plugin code directly calls
```

Reviewer: **question:** Can the native plugin code indirectly call the system library? If not, remove _directly_ because it doesn't add any value.

the system library being used. This means that you can write 
the code to call the Dart API once, 

> and it will work for all the platforms 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and it works for all platforms that the plugin supports.
```

> that the plugin has been written for. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

> To learn more about plugins see [Using packages][]. 

Reviewer: **nit:** Add a comma.
```suggestion
To learn more about plugins, see [Using packages][]. 
```

> This document links out to some commonly used plugins, 
> and their examples, but there are thousands more available on [pub.dev][]. 
> And, if you can't find what you're looking for, you can create your own. 

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Tighten up this language.
```suggestion
Though this page links to some popular plugins,
you can find thousands more on [pub.dev][]. 
If you can't find a package that meets your need, 
you can create your own. 
```

Author: I want to make it clear that there are examples on pub.dev as well

### Adding a plugin to your project

> When using Apple frameworks within your native project, 
> you usually just need to import it into your Swift or Objective-C file. 

Reviewer: **suggestion:** Tighten up the language.
```suggestion
When using Apple frameworks within your native project, 
import it into your Swift or Objective-C file. 
```

> In Flutter, you must first run `flutter pub add package_name` 
> in the terminal, from the root of your project. This adds 
> the dependency to your [`pubspec.yaml`][] file. You can then import 
> the package in your Dart file. 

Reviewer: **suggestion:** This part rambles some. Tighten it up.
```suggestion
Flutter requires you to run `flutter pub add package_name` 
from the root of your project. This adds 
the dependency to your [`pubspec.yaml`][] file.
After you add the dependency, `import` the package
in your Dart file. 
```

> Occasionally, you may also need to change app settings or 

Reviewer: **question:** Can you be more specific here? Are there explicit cases when the dev would need to change the settings?

Author: It's dependent on the plugin. See an example here - https://pub.dev/packages/image_picker#ios

The dev needs to change settings by adding keys to info.plist

> Occasionally, you may also need to change app settings or 
> initialization logic- which will be explained in the package's 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Occasionally, you might also need to change app settings or 
initialization logic- which should be explained in the package's 
```

> initialization logic- which will be explained in the package's 

Author: Yes exactly

"Readme" page on [pub.dev][].

### Accessing the photo library
In Swift and Objective-C, you use `PhotoKit` and the `PhotosUI` framework
to access user photos.

> In Flutter, you can use the [`image_picker`][] plugin, 
> which supplies an `ImpagePicker` class that is used to 
> display the user's photo library.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In Flutter, you can use the [`image_picker`][] plugin 
that supplies an `ImpagePicker` class, which  
displays the user's photo library.
```

### Accessing the camera
In SwiftUI and UIKit, to allow your app's users to take a photo, 

> you use the `UIImagePickerController` class, 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
use the `UIImagePickerController` class
```

with the `.camera` `sourceType`.

In Flutter, to access the camera, 
you'll use the same [`image_picker`][] plugin that was 
referenced above. The code will look similar, 
only now the `source` for `pickImage` is the camera.

### In-app purchases
In Swift and Objective-c, you use `StoreKit` to 
offer in-app purchases.

In Flutter, you can support in-app purchases through the 
Google Play store on Android and the 
Apple App Store on iOS by using the 
[`in_app_purchase`][] plugin.

### Payment processing
In Swift and Objective-C, you use `PassKit` to process 
Apple Pay payments in your app. 

In Flutter, you can use the [`pay`][] plugin to 
add Google Pay payments on Android

>  and Apple pay payments on iOS.

Reviewer 3: An important point.

>  and Apple pay payments on iOS.

Reviewer 2: since it's 3P plugin, when we endorse it, i think we need to be careful that 
1. this plugin actually works; 
2. it's good quality; 
3. it's not abandoned and actively being maintained; 
4. maybe other criteria?

>  and Apple pay payments on iOS.

Author: Yeah I agree, I'm adding a sentence at the top saying we're not endorsing, but I did check to make sure all of these plugins are highly rated on pub

### Push notifications
In Swift and Objective-C, you use the `UserNotifications` 
framework for pushing user-facing notifications.

In Flutter, you can use the [`firebase_messaging`][] plugin, 

> which uses Firebase Cloud Messaging. 

Reviewer 2: Is there a plugin that supports APNS?

Author: It seems like there is but it's from an unverified publisher so not sure if it's worth mentioning: https://pub.dev/packages/flutter_apns

I haven't personally used FCM before but it seems like you may be able to use APNs through their integration: https://firebase.flutter.dev/docs/messaging/apple-integration/

Reviewer 2: ah gotcha. maybe worth mentioning, since APNS may be what devs are looking for, if they have all their severs setup already.

Author: Good point thanks!

### Accessing GPS coordinates
In Swift and Objective-C, you use the `CLLocationManager` class, 
of the `CoreLocation` framework, 
to access the user's location. 

In Flutter, to access the user's location, 
you can use the [`geolocator`][] plugin. 

### Accessing sensor data
In Swift and Objective-C, you use the `CMMotionManager` class,
of the `CoreMotion` framework, to access sensor data
like the accelerometer or the gyroscope.

In Flutter, to read sensor data, 

> you can use the [`sensors_plus`][] plugin.

Reviewer 2: is this 1P or 3P?

Author: 3P -- to me the purpose of this document is not to highlight 1P plugins, it's to highlight plugins that allow you to accomplish the same tasks that you would with Apple's frameworks

### Embedding maps
In Swift and Objective-c, you use `MapKit` to embed 
Apple Maps within your app. 

In Flutter, you can embed Google Maps using the 

> [`google_maps_flutter`][] plugin. 

Reviewer 2: iirc there's also a plugin based on mapkit. Should we also mention it?

Reviewer 2: yeah,  probably better not to include it given its current state.

### Network requests
In Swift and Objective-C, to make an HTTP request you use the
 `URLSession` class.

In Flutter, you can use the [`http`][] package.

### Persisting data
In SwiftUI, to persist small pieces of data in your application, 

> you would likely use the `@AppStorage` property wrapper.

Reviewer 2: maybe also mention NSUserDefault

Author: Added!

In Flutter, to utilize the operating system's key-value storage, 
you can use the [`shared_preferences`][] plugin. 

### Accessing health data
In Swift and Objective-C, you use the `HealthKit` framework
to access health and fitness data.

In Flutter, you can use the [`health`][] plugin 

> to access `HealthKit` data.

Reviewer 2: this seems 3P plugin too. should we be careful about endorsing a 3P plugin in our official doc?

Reviewer 3: Yes, correct, we need to be careful.

Author: There are numerous 3P plugins in this doc. Is there a way we can mention them without "endorsing"? Maybe a sentence at the beginning saying we are not endorsing?

Reviewer 2: iirc there's something called 'flutter favorite program'? maybe only list things that belong to that?

Author: Yes but it hasn't run in a few years so newer packages aren't on there, I'm working on that separately but I think that would be a blocker for now

### Leveraging machine learning
In Swift and Objective-C, you might use the `CoreML` framework 
for integrating machine learning models into your app, 
or `VisionKit` for text recognition.

In Flutter, you can leverage Google's ML Kit with the [`google_ml_kit`][] plugin. 
This supports various features like text recognition, 

> face detection, image labeling, landmark recognition and barcode scanning.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
face detection, image labeling, landmark recognition, and barcode scanning.
```

Alternatively, you can create a custom model with Firebase. For more information, 
see [Use a custom TensorFlow Lite model with Flutter][].

### Leveraging speech recognition
In Swift and Objective-C, you might use the `Speech` framework for performing 
speech recognition.

In Flutter, you can use the [`speech_to_text`][] plugin, which exposes 
device specific speech recognition capabilities.

### Leveraging augmented reality 
In Swift and Objective-C, you might use the `ARKit` framework 
for creating augmented reality apps. 

In Flutter, you can use the [`ar_flutter_plugin`][]. 

### Accessing weather data
In Swift and Objective-C, you might use the `WeatherKit` framework 
for accessing weather conditions and forecasts. 

In Flutter, you can use the [`weather`][] package, 

> which uses the [OpenWeatherMap API]. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
which uses the [OpenWeatherMap API][]. 
```

initialization logic- which should be explained in the package's 
"Readme" page on [pub.dev][].

### Flutter Plugins and Apple Frameworks

| Use Case | Apple Framework or Class | Flutter Plugin |
| -------- | --------------- | -------------- |
| Accessing the photo library | `PhotoKit` (`Photos` and `PhotosUI ` frameworks) | [`image_picker`][] |

> | Accessing the camera | `UIImagePickerController` class with the `.camera` `sourceType` | [`image_picker`][] |

Reviewer 2: `UIImagePickerController` can also be used for accessing photo library. maybe also add this to previous row?

Reviewer 2: maybe also add a row 
```
| More advanced camera features | AVFoundation | camera plugin |
```

Author: Added, thanks!

| In-app purchases | `StoreKit` | [`in_app_purchase`][], which supports both Google Play Store on Android and Apple App Store on iOS |
| Payment processing | `PassKit` | [`pay`][], which adds Google Pay payments on Android and Apple Pay payments on iOS. |

> | Push notifications | `UserNotifications` | [`firebase_messaging`][], which uses Firebase Cloud Messaging and integrates with APNs| 

Reviewer 2: APNS

| Accessing GPS coordinates | `CoreLocation` | [`geolocator`][] |
| Accessing sensor data (e.g. accelerometer, gyroscope) | `CoreMotion`  | [`sensors_plus`][] |
| Embedding maps | `MapKit` | [`google_maps_flutter`][] |
| Network requests| `URLSession` class | [`http`][] |

> | Store key-values | `@AppStorage` property wrapper or `NSUserDefaults` class| [`shared_preferences`][] |

Reviewer 2: Nit: `@AppStorage` (in SwiftUI)

Author: Added

> | Persisting data | `CoreData` | [`sqflite`][] |

Reviewer 2: nit: 
```
| Database | CoreData or sqlite | sqflite |
```

Author: Added
